# Predictive-Equipment-Failures


The Case Study "Predictive Equipment Failures" deals with prediction of the failure of an equipment before it can fail. As an employee while working in an MNC, we had been given the task of building IoT solutions for the underlying infrastructure of the company. The entire IoT system was built with sensors and connected over the Internet to Cloud to monitor readings, control devices such as HVAC, Diesel Generators etc. The important point to note is when a device like AC's or diesel generator fail, the cost of repair at that instant in an emergency is multiple times of the cost that it would take to repair when done as maintenance. Such costs bring down revenue for the company even though the company had the data before hand but was not able to convert the same into useful information. 

This case study exactly deals with a similar scenario as posed by a company named "ConocoPhillips" in West Texas. The company has several oil wells classified as stripper wells. Stripper wells produce low volumes of oil at well level, but at a country level of the US, they amount for significant domestic oil production. Since the wells have low throughput, if the equipment for extracting the oil fails, then profit margin too is impacted severely. Thus, the company has attached 107 sensors to the surface and down-hole equipment and provided a dataset of the values and the downtime of the equipment. Using the dataset, we need to predict if the equipment will fail in the near future. This would help the company in sending the maintenance team to the well location to fix the equipment on the surface level or even send a worker rig to the well to pull-down equipment and solve the issue.
